<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ncj_xpv_m3c">
    <title>5. Chunk Data Model</title>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_e2l_ypv_m3c">
            <title>5.1 Description</title>
            <p>The retrieval system operates on document fragments called "chunks". Each chunk
                represents a semantically meaningful section of a document that can be retrieved
                independently during query processing.</p>
            <p>Chunks are generated during the ingestion process by splitting Markdown documents
                along heading boundaries.</p>
            <p>Each chunk contains both textual content and metadata used for retrieval and
                ranking.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_g2l_ypv_m3c">
            <title>5.2 Chunk Structure</title>
            <p>Each chunk contains the following fields:</p>
            <ul id="ul_uhk_x34_t3c">
                <li>
                    <p><b>id</b>: Unique identifier for the chunk.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>content</b>: The textual content of the chunk.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>title</b>: The title of the document or section associated with the
                        chunk.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>document_path</b>: The relative path to the source Markdown document.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>metadata</b>: Structured metadata extracted from the document
                        frontmatter.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>embedding</b>: Vector embedding representing the semantic meaning of the
                        chunk.</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section id="section_jw1_zpv_m3c">
            <title>5.3 Example Chunk Object</title>
            <pre>{
  "chunk_id": "create-kb-met-overview",
  "title": "create-kb-met Go Utility",
  "document_path": "/projects/create-kb-met.md",
  "content": "The create-kb-met utility converts SharePoint JSON metadata into DITA-compatible metadata files used in documentation pipelines.",
  "metadata": {
    "type": "project",
    "category": "tooling",
    "tags": "dita, automation, metadata",
    "date": "2026-03-01"
  }
}</pre>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
