<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_ygh_pk4_t3c">
    <title>7. Retrieval Signals</title>
    <conbody>
        <section id="section_czx_5k4_t3c">
            <title>7.1 Description</title>
            <p>The retrieval engine uses multiple signals when ranking candidate chunks.</p>
            <p>These signals allow the system to improve relevance beyond simple vector
                similarity.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_q5d_wk4_t3c">
            <title>7.2 Vector Similarity</title>
            <p>Semantic similarity between the user query embedding and the chunk embedding.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_vwq_yk4_t3c">
            <title>7.3 Keyword Matching</title>
            <p>Semantic similarity between the user query embedding and the chunk embedding.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_pts_zk4_t3c">
            <title>7.4 Hierarchy Signals</title>
            <p>Structural signals derived from document titles and headings.</p>
            <p>These signals help prioritize content that appears in higher-level sections of a
                document.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_kjg_cl4_t3c">
            <title>7.5 Metadata Signals</title>
            <p>Metadata signals are actively used during retrieval scoring.</p>
            <p>These include:</p>
            <ul id="ul_fb4_dl4_t3c">
                <li>
                    <p>category matching</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>tag matching</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>project grouping</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>layer-based contextual weighting</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p>Metadata contributes to ranking through weighted scoring bonuses applied during
                hybrid scoring.</p>
            <p>This allows the system to:</p>
            <ul id="ul_mhb_pld_w3c">
                <li>
                    <p>prioritize relevant content types</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>improve alignment with structured queries</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>enhance retrieval precision beyond semantic similarity</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section id="section_acf_qld_w3c">
            <title>7.6 Intent Signals</title>
            <p>The system incorporates query intent as a dynamic retrieval signal.</p>
            <p>Intent is classified into:</p>
            <ul id="ul_ovb_sld_w3c">
                <li>
                    <p>identity</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>experience</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>technical</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p>Intent influences ranking by adjusting metadata-based scoring weights.</p>
            <p>Examples:</p>
            <ul id="ul_r5v_sld_w3c">
                <li>
                    <p>identity queries prioritize profile-related content</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>experience queries prioritize resume and project history</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>technical queries prioritize architecture and pipeline documentation</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p>This enables context-aware retrieval behavior without requiring additional model
                inference.</p>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>
